[DOCS]: Move `_reindex` API examples to ES reference documentation (#129341)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/elasticsearch/rest-apis/reindex-indices.md

---
navigation_title: "Reindex indices"
mapped_pages:
  - https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/current/docs-reindex.html
applies_to:
  stack: all
---

# Reindex indices examples

> ::::{admonition} New API reference
> For the most up-to-date API details, refer to [Document APIs](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-reindex).
> ::::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides examples of how to use the [Reindex API](https://www.elastic.co/docs/api/doc/elasticsearch/operation/operation-reindex).
```

Reviewer: It would be good to provide a jumplist like @kosabogi did in her PR too so readers can scan what they can learn from the page :)

Reviewer: @charlotte-hoblik, I think you're right, the jumplist here is too dominating, but perhaps a short overview of the kinds of examples users can find here, in prose, would be be a bit more user friendly :)

Set `requests_per_second` to any positive decimal number (for example, `1.4`, `6`, or `1000`) to throttle the rate at which the reindex API issues batches of index operations.
Requests are throttled by padding each batch with a wait time.
To disable throttling, set `requests_per_second` to `-1`.

The throttling is done by waiting between batches so that the `scroll` that the reindex API uses internally can be given a timeout that takes into account the padding. The padding time is the difference between the batch size divided by the `requests_per_second` and the time spent writing. By default the batch size is `1000`, so if `requests_per_second` is set to `500`:

```txt
target_time = 1000 / 500 per second = 2 seconds
wait_time = target_time - write_time = 2 seconds - .5 seconds = 1.5 seconds
```

Since the batch is issued as a single `_bulk` request, large batch sizes cause {{es}} to create many requests and then wait for a while before starting the next set. This is "bursty" instead of "smooth".

## Rethrottling [docs-reindex-rethrottle]

The value of `requests_per_second` can be changed on a running reindex using the `_rethrottle` API. For example:

> ```console

Reviewer: consider restoring the commented test snippets from the original `asciidoc` replacing `//` with `%`
